5|sblob.sql|A fable by Aesop: The Monkey and the Dolphin: A SAILOR, bound on a long voyage, took with him a Monkey to amuse him while on shipboard.  As he sailed off the coast of Greece, a violent tempest arose in which the ship was wrecked and he, his Monkey, and all the crew were obliged to swim for their lives.  A Dolphin saw the Monkey contending with the waves, and supposing him to be a man (whom he is always said to befriend), came and placed himself under him, to convey him on his back in safety to the shore.  When the Dolphin arrived with his burden in sight of land not far from Athens, he asked the Monkey if he were an Athenian.  The latter replied that he was, and that he was descended from one of the most noble families in that city.  The Dolphin then inquired if he knew the Piraeus (the famous harbor of Athens).  Supposing that a man was meant, the Monkey answered that he knew him very well and that he was an intimate friend. The Dolphin, indignant at these falsehoods, dipped the Monkey under the water and drowned him.|
6|sblob.sql|A fable by Aesop: The Mouse, the Frog, and the Hawk: A MOUSE who always lived on the land, by an unlucky chance formed an intimate acquaintance with a Frog, who lived for the most part in the water.  The Frog, one day intent on mischief, bound the foot of the Mouse tightly to his own.  Thus joined together, the Frog first of all led his friend the Mouse to the meadow where they were accustomed to find their food.  After this, he gradually led him towards the pool in which he lived, until reaching the very brink, he suddenly jumped in, dragging the Mouse with him.  The Frog enjoyed the water amazingly, and swam croaking about, as if he had done a good deed.  The unhappy Mouse was soon suffocated by the water, and his dead body floated about on the surface, tied to the foot of the Frog.  A Hawk observed it, and, pouncing upon it with his talons, carried it aloft.  The Frog, being still fastened to the leg of the Mouse, was also carried off a prisoner, and was eaten by the Hawk.  (Moral: Harm hatch, harm catch.)|
