9|big value|A fable by Aesop: The Buffoon and the Countryman : A RICH NOBLEMAN once opened the theaters without charge to the people, and gave a public notice that he would handsomely reward any person who invented a new amusement for the occasion. Various public performers contended for the prize.  Among them came a Buffoon well known among the populace for his jokes, and said that he had a kind of entertainment which had never been brought out on any stage before.  This report being spread about made a great stir, and the theater was crowded in every part. The Buffoon appeared alone upon the platform, without any apparatus or confederates, and the very sense of expectation caused an intense silence.  He suddenly bent his head towards his bosom and imitated the squeaking of a little pig so admirably with his voice that the audience declared he had a porker under his cloak, and demanded that it should be shaken out.  When that was done and nothing was found, they cheered the actor, and loaded him with the loudest applause.  A Countryman in the crowd, observing all that has passed, said, "So help me, Hercules, he shall not beat me at that trick!"  and at once proclaimed that he would do the same thing on the next day, though in a much more natural way.  On the morrow a still larger crowd assembled in the theater, but now partiality for their favorite actor very generally prevailed, and the audience came rather to ridicule the Countryman than to see the spectacle.  Both of the performers appeared on the stage.  The Buffoon grunted and squeaked away first, and obtained, as on the preceding day, the applause and cheers of the spectators.  Next the Countryman commenced, and pretending that he concealed a little pig beneath his clothes (which in truth he did, but not suspected by the audience ) contrived to take hold of and to pull his ear causing the pig to squeak.  The Crowd, however, cried out with one consent that the Buffoon had given a far more exact imitation, and clamored for the Countryman to be kicked out of the theater.  On this the rustic produced the little pig from his cloak and showed by the most positive proof the greatness of their mistake.  "Look here," he said, "this shows what sort of judges you are."|
10|big value|A fable by Aesop: The Miller, His Son, and Their Ass: A MILLER and his son were driving their Ass to a neighboring fair to sell him.  They had not gone far when they met with a troop of women collected round a well, talking and laughing.  "Look there," cried one of them, "did you ever see such fellows, to be trudging along the road on foot when they might ride?'  The old man hearing this, quickly made his son mount the Ass, and continued to walk along merrily by his side.  Presently they came up to a group of old men in earnest debate.  "There," said one of them, "it proves what I was a-saying.  What respect is shown to old age in these days? Do you see that idle lad riding while his old father has to walk? Get down, you young scapegrace, and let the old man rest his weary limbs."  Upon this the old man made his son dismount, and got up himself.  In this manner they had not proceeded far when they met a company of women and children: "Why, you lazy old fellow," cried several tongues at once, "how can you ride upon the beast, while that poor little lad there can hardly keep pace by the side of you?'  The good-natured Miller immediately took up his son behind him.  They had now almost reached the town.    "Pray, honest friend," said a citizen, "is that Ass your own?'  "Yes," replied the old man.  "O, one would not have thought so," said the other, "by the way you load him. Why, you two fellows are better able to carry the poor beast than he you."  "Anything to please you," said the old man; "we can but try."  So, alighting with his son, they tied the legs of the Ass together and with the help of a pole endeavored to carry him on their shoulders over a bridge near the entrance to the town. This entertaining sight brought the people in crowds to laugh at it, till the Ass, not liking the noise nor the strange handling that he was subject to, broke the cords that bound him and, tumbling off the pole, fell into the river.  Upon this, the old man, vexed and ashamed, made the best of his way home again, convinced that by endeavoring to please everybody he had pleased nobody, and lost his Ass in the bargain.|
